---
layout: layouts/post.njk
tags:
  - news
title: Residancy at PADA
subtitle: More about the world of news
type: 
author: 
  name: Anthony Warnick
#   link: 
date: 2022-05-02

---
Course Number: ART 330  
Course Title: Digital Techniques in Visual Art  
Section: A  

Instructor: Assistant Professor Anthony Warnick  
Email: [warnick@ksu.edu](mailto:warnick@ksu.edu)  
Office: 037 Willard Hall  
Office Hours: By Appointment  

Prerequisites: none  
Course Website: use KSOnline (Canvas)  

Meeting Days: Monday & Wednesday  
Meeting Times: 8:30am - 11:20am  
Meeting Room: Willard 217  



##  Land Acknowledgement

As the first land-grant institution established under the 1862 Morrill Act, we acknowledge that the state of Kansas is historically home to many Native nations, including the [Kaw](http://kawnation.com/?page_id=72), [Osage](https://www.osagenation-nsn.gov/who-we-are/historic-preservation), and [Pawnee](https://www.pawneenation.org/page/home/pawnee-history), among others. Furthermore, Kansas is the current home to four federally recognized Native nations: The [Prairie Band Potawatomie](https://www.pbpindiantribe.com/about/), the [Kickapoo Tribe of Kansas](https://www.ktik-nsn.gov/history/), the [Iowa Tribe of Kansas and Nebraska](https://www.iowatribeofkansasandnebraska.com/history-of-the-ioway), and [Sac and Fox Nation of Missouri in Kansas and Nebraska](http://www.sacandfoxks.com/).

Many Native nations utilized the western plains of Kansas as their hunting grounds, and others – such as the Delaware – were moved through this region during Indian removal efforts to make way for White settlers. It’s important to acknowledge this, since the land that serves as the foundation for this institution was, and still is, stolen land.

We remember these truths because K-State’s status as a land-grant institution is a story that exists within ongoing settler-colonialism, and rests on the dispossession of Indigenous peoples and nations from their lands. These truths are often invisible to many. The recognition that K-State’s history begins and continues through Indigenous contexts is essential.

## **Course Description**

3 credits. 

Survey of the most frequently used programs in the studio arts and equipment necessary for successful navigation on the digital arena. Course is a six hour lab.

 

### **Course Content & Goals**

Art 330 is a studio art course and introduction to digital and experimental media based art. Art 330 concentrates on the basics of digital media including still, web, and time-based imagery as well as a historic context of experimental media in the arts. Students will be introduced to a digital media artistic process through lectures, demonstrations, discussions, and hands-on production of art works.

Art 330 will also explore the influence of digital media in historic and contemporary fine art developments. Student are encouraged to bring their knowledge and experience of traditional art practice into this course. Students in Art 330 will be given the opportunity to bridge a physical art practice with a digital process with the belief that each can be enhanced when merged. Assignments in Art 330 are given to engage students in the technical, conceptual, and aesthetic aspects of digital art production.

This course will be a survey of the Adobe Creative Suite and other digital technologies. Along with several in class exercises, student will be asked to complete several projects and one research project.

You will spend a LOT of time working in this course both in and out of class, and requires work outside of assigned class time (minimum of 3 hours per week). Any reading, library research, writing assignments or attendance at guest artist’s lecture will be included in this time.

 

### **Goals/Objectives**

• Develop an understanding of the tools, techniques, and concepts used in digital and experimental media art practices. 

• Develop a critical awareness of what constitutes quality work by participating in constructive peer critiques. 

• Recognize, analyze, and discuss contemporary trends in art works. 

• Understand how to prepare digital files for output for print, web, and video. 

• Create a web based portfolio. 

• Develop understanding of difference between fine art and applied art.

 

### **Proficiencies / Competencies**

• Expand critical, analytical, and conceptual thinking abilities. 

• Apply critical, analytical, and conceptual thinking skills to the creation of digital art. 

• Develop an understanding of contemporary digital art trends, styles, and practices.

 

## **Equipment/Materials**

• 250GB+ External Portable Hard-Drive. Very important. The machines in the lab are wiped periodically, so get used to saving your work to a drive. 

• Digital Camera. You will be required to have access to a digital camera for some assignments. Cameras may be checked out at the Media Development Center, which is located in the Student Union. 

• Sketchbook 

• Paper. For some projects, we’ll be printing images on an inkjet printer. 

• Wordpress.com & Vimeo.com accounts. You will be creating a portfolio website that will be used to document your work throughout the class. Additionally you will need to create a Vimeo account for uploading video work.

•Adobe Creative Cloud student membership. 
Via: https://www.adobe.com/products/pricing-info/ccste-pricing-info.html

**KSOnline (Canvas) Information**

All official documents and readings will be disseminated through KSOnline (Canvas). Using your KSU email account and KSOnline are a requirement for this course! Syllabus, project sheets, portfolio checklists, references, and calendar updates will be posted on KSOnline. Notifications will be uploaded and sent out through KSOnline and your KSU email, so be sure to check both on a daily basis so as not to miss any vital information. You can access both on the KSU homepage with your K-State login and password.

**Computer Literacy Expectations**

Students will need basic word processing and internet searching skills for the completion of some papers, exercises, and projects.

**Required Texts**

We will read several articles throughout the semester that explore new media art. Students will be expected to read and discuss these articles in class. These readings will be posted on KSOnline.



## Policies

### Grading

Assignments are to be completed on time. Each day the project is late the grade will be lowered one letter grade. If you feel the piece is incomplete, or questionable, bring it to class for critique. This class will provide a venue for discussion and your fellow students are there for input and guidance. At the time of the critique you will receive a grade. If you know you are going to be absent make arrangements to hand in the work before critique.

- Any appeal for grades must be brought to the instructor during office hours or at a scheduled time convenient to both parties.
- Incomplete grades ("I") will only be granted for significant events such as the death of a family member during the semester or a note from a doctor documenting a hospitalization representing a significant period of time.
- Only if given the final grade of "I" (incomplete) will additional work after the conclusion of a semester be accepted.

The final semester grading scale for this course will reflect Kansas State University's standard grading scale A – F.

##### 100-90 A

Exceptionally fine work: outstanding achievement against all course learning objectives.

##### 89-80 B

Above average work: superior achievement against most course learning objectives.

##### 79-70 C

Average work: good, meets most course objectives at a basic level.

##### 69-60 D

Below average work: noticeably weak, fails to meet most course learning objectives.

##### 59-0 F

Clearly deficient against all course learning objectives.

Note: I will send grades and official announcements via KSOnline so make sure to read your official student email. This syllabus may be modified at the instructor’s discretion. Students will be notified in a timely manner of any changes.

### Critiques

We will be having a number of critiques during the semester using informal, formal, group, and individual formats. Critiques are a valuable forum for communication between students and instructor and provide an opportunity for everyone to view and learn from each other’s work. It is the intent of this course to provide an environment in which a lively and rich exchange between students and instructor may occur. Therefore, please restrict your comments to constructive criticism - show respect at all times for the thoughts and efforts of all class participants. *Any scheduled critiques are considered to be like “Exams.” Missed critiques will impact your grade negatively.*

### Personal Responsibility & Attendance

Students who are unable to attend class due to the need to isolate or quarantine because of COVID-19 related symptoms, exposure, illness, or travel-related self-quarantine mandates (see https://www.k-state.edu/covid-19/guidance/health/covid-19-exposure-protocol.html)  should contact the Office of Student Life, who will inform the student’s instructors.  You should also contact me directly.

Full attendance and punctuality are essential to this class.  When you miss important information, comments and interactions it may compromise the success of your assigned challenges.  **You are responsible for obtaining all information missed if absent.**

#### University Excused Absences include:

- Extra-curricular activities as a representative of the University in which students are representing the university in some capacity (e.g., presenting at an academic conference, athletics, or musical performances).
- Military service.
- Court appearances.
- Disability accommodation.
- Pregnancy, childbirth or adoption. 
- Religious observances.
- Weather. The University may cancel classes due to severe weather and will make this known through inclement weather announcements. Please refer to the KSU website for delays and closings.
- Special programming.

An unexcused absence is anything else, including but not limited to: minor illnesses; oversleeping; interviews & appointments; vacations; car, traffic, or parking problems; job hour conflicts, etc.

If you have a requirement for another class that conflicts with this one, please discuss the situation ASAP with both instructors. Student athletes should discuss any travel requirements well ahead of time.  If this class conflicts with practice times, find a section that works with your schedule. If you have a situation that you think should be an excused absence, please talk to me and/or contact the Office of Student Life: stulife@k-state.edu

### Class Communication

I will communicate with you primarily through email and the tools within Canvas. If you have a personal concern or question you would like to talk about, please send me an email directly. During the workweek, I will respond to personal emails or your posts directed to me within 24 hours. I will review communication over the weekend, but I will respond on Monday to most situations. If you need to reach me by email, please allow a full 24 hours before emailing me again about the same question or issue, and on Monday for inquiries sent over the weekend.

- Check your K-State email daily for announcements regarding class. 
- Canvas and are.na will be used to post assignments, handouts or other information for your convenience. You will be required to upload work for review.  
- You are responsible for keeping track of verbal instructions or other communication from the instructor during class sessions.

###  Face Covering

To protect the health and safety of the K-State community, students, faculty, staff and visitors must wear face coverings over their mouths and noses while on K-State campuses in all hallways, public spaces, classrooms and other common areas of campus buildings, and when in offices or other work spaces or outdoor settings when 6-feet social distancing cannot be maintained. In addition, all students, faculty, and staff are required to take the COVID-19 and Face Mask Safety training. Employees who need reasonable accommodations and assistance related to required face coverings may contact the ADA coordinator at charlott@k-state.edu, and students needing accommodations may contact the Student Access Center at [accesscenter@k-state.edu](mailto:accesscenter@k-state.edu).

In classrooms, faculty have the right to deny a student entry into the room if the student is not wearing a face covering. Students not wearing a face covering will be reminded to do so and offered a clean face covering, if one is available. If the student does not comply, the faculty member will ask the student to leave the space, and if available, join the class remotely.  As a last resort, campus police will be called. The faculty members will complete the Code of Conduct form and the Office of Student Life will look further into the issue and take the non-compliance with the request to leave into consideration of further accountability measures. At no point should the professor or other students put themselves into an unsafe situation while attempting to enforce the face-covering policy. Manhattan campus police: 785-532-6412

## Statements

#### Statement Regarding [Academic Honesty](http://www.k-state.edu/honor/faculty/syllabus.html)

Kansas State University has an Honor and Integrity System based on personal integrity, which is presumed to be sufficient assurance that, in academic matters, one's work is performed honestly and without unauthorized assistance. Undergraduate and graduate students, by registration, acknowledge the jurisdiction of the Honor and Integrity System. The policies and procedures of the Honor and Integrity System apply to all full and part-time students enrolled in undergraduate and graduate courses on-campus, off-campus, and via distance learning. The Honor and Integrity System website can be reached via the following URL: [www.k-state.edu/honor (Links to an external site.)](http://www.k-state.edu/honor). A component vital to the Honor and Integrity System is the inclusion of the Honor Pledge which applies to all assignments, examinations, or other course work undertaken by students. The Honor Pledge is implied, whether or not it is stated: "On my honor, as a student, I have neither given nor received unauthorized aid on this academic work." A grade of XF can result from a breach of academic honesty. The F indicates failure in the course; the X indicates the reason is an Honor Pledge violation.

#### Statement Regarding [Students with Disabilities](http://www.k-state.edu/accesscenter)

Students with disabilities who need classroom accommodations, access to technology, or information about emergency building/campus evacuation processes should contact the Student Access Center and/or their instructor. Services are available to students with a wide range of disabilities including, but not limited to, physical disabilities, medical conditions, learning disabilities, attention deficit disorder, depression, and anxiety. If you are a student enrolled in campus/online courses through the Manhattan or Olathe campuses, contact the Student Access Center at [accesscenter@k-state.edu](mailto:accesscenter@k-state.edu), 785-532-6441; for K-State Polytechnic campus, contact Academic and Student Services at [polytechnicadvising@ksu.edu](mailto:polytechnicadvising@ksu.edu) or call 785-826-2974.

**Notice of Non-Discrimination:** Kansas State University is committed to a policy of nondiscrimination on the basis of race, sex, national origin, handicap or other non-merit reason, in admissions, educational programs or activities, and employment, as required by applicable laws and regulations. Inquiries may be addressed to:

Director, Affirmative Action Office 214 Anderson Hall Kansas State University Manhattan, KS 66506

**Campus Safety Statement:** Kansas State University is committed to providing a safe teaching and learning environment for students and faculty members. In order to enhance your safety in the unlikely case of a campus emergency make sure that you know where and how to quickly exit the classroom and how to follow any emergency directives. To view additional campusemergency information go to the University’s main page, ww w.k-state.edu, and click on the Emergency Information button.

#### Right to Use of Student Work

Student works created in the Kansas State University Department of Art or made available to the Department of Art may be distributed, exhibited, and reproduced for noncommercial purposes of education/scholarship, exhibition, accreditation, development, and promotion; as examples of student work by department faculty or agents of the department.  Your cooperation is appreciated.  

#### Academic Freedom Statement

Kansas State University is a community of students, faculty, and staff who work together to discover new knowledge, create new ideas, and share the results of their scholarly inquiry with the wider public. Although new ideas or research results may be controversial or challenge established views, the health and growth of any society requires frank intellectual exchange. Academic freedom protects this type of free exchange and is thus essential to any university's mission.

Moreover, academic freedom supports collaborative work in the pursuit of truth and the dissemination of knowledge in an environment of inquiry, respectful debate, and professionalism. Academic freedom is not limited to the classroom or to scientific and scholarly research, but extends to the life of the university as well as to larger social and political questions. It is the right and responsibility of the university community to engage with such issues.

#### Student Resources Statement

K-State has many resources to help contribute to student success. These resources include accommodations for academics, paying for college, student life, health and safety, and others found at [www.k-state.edu/onestop](www.k-state.edu/onestop)

#### Statement on Mental Health

Your mental health and good relationships are vital to your overall well-being. Symptoms of mental health issues may include excessive sadness or worry, thoughts of death or self-harm, inability to concentrate, lack of motivation, or substance abuse. Although problems can occur anytime for anyone, you should pay extra attention to your mental health if you are feeling academic or financial stress, discrimination, or have experienced a traumatic event, such as loss of a friend or family member, sexual assault or other physical or emotional abuse. 

If you are struggling with these issues, do not wait to seek assistance. 

- Kansas State University Counseling Services ([k-state.edu/counseling/](https://www.k-state.edu/provost/resources/teaching/k-state.edu/counseling/)) offers free and confidential services to assist you to meet these challenges. 
- Lafene Health Center (https://www.k-state.edu/lafene) has specialized nurse practitioners to assist with mental health. 
- The Office of Student Life ([k-state.edu/studentlife](https://www.k-state.edu/provost/resources/teaching/k-state.edu/studentlife)) can direct you to additional resources. 
- K-State Family Center offers individual, couple, and family counseling services on a sliding fee scale (https://www.hhs.k-state.edu/familycenter/). 
- Center for Advocacy, Response, and Education (CARE) provides free and confidential assistance for those in our K-State community who have been victimized by violence (https://www.k-state.edu/care/). 

#### Statement Defining Expectations for Classroom Conduct

All student activities in the University, including this course, are governed by the [Student Judicial Conduct Code](http://www.k-state.edu/sga/judicial/student-code-of-conduct.html) as outlined in the Student Governing Association By Laws, Article V, Section 3, number 2. Students who engage in behavior that disrupts the learning environment may be asked to leave the class.

Please read the KSU Principles of Community and follow closely: http://www.k-state.edu/about/community.html

I expect that all students in the class will respect their teacher and fellow students, and treat each other with understanding and tolerance. Discrimination of any form is counter-productive to a creative environment. It is also offensive. I stand against any discrimination towards anyone in this class, and consequences of such behavior will be very negative. 

